Hi.
We didn't this lecture we going to see how to perform say grace within sight of cold.
We're not going to a sign and stating Segway right now we're just going to do the Segway inside of our
view controller that Swift.
And in order to do that we are going to create the Segway from here.
OK.
Choose this yellow that it means the view controller and just drag and drop the second view controller
and choose show Segway and this will create a Segway between these apps.
And the second one comes from the button but the first one comes from the controller itself.
So it's not a sign to any view right now.
So I'm going to give this an identifier.
OK I'm going to say two seconds V.C. because we will need this identifier because we're going to call
the Segway inside of our code for example if you come over here and say power firm segway to your next
clicked OK.
And this should be performed Segway.
OK like this.
So double click on that.
Or he'd tap it will ask you for an identifier.
And I'm not looking for this shoot per for more campaign for I'm looking for power firm Segway.
So in here I'm going to give the identifier that I have written so it has to be exactly the same.
So two second V.C. two seconds V.C. and sender it means that this is a helper object that can transmit
messages.
We're going to do that manually.
So I'm just going to say nil.
So this will per firm the Segway that I have created with this identifier.
So I have written this inside of my next clicked.
So I can't write this anywhere I want.
He doesn't have to be bothered.
It's can be anything I want.
OK I can write this inside of a function.
I can write this inside of a button as you can see now when I click Next it takes me to second view
controller.
So right now all I have to do when I type a name here like I still had next I wanted to show it here
but in order to do that we need to learn about some new stuff as well.
Because in the second view controller I have some variables but I cannot reach them in the first view
controller right.
In fact let me create a new variable here and they assign it to be my name labeled text because we're
going to need that eventually.
Right.
So we have to do it under class but outside of my we did lots function.
So I'm not defining this into a function.
OK I'm defining this outside of my functions inside of my class so that we can reach it from everywhere.
So I can assign it to be my name right.
So this is OK.
Now only thing to do is just to connect is my name which we have controller.
So we have this variable over here but I cannot just come here and call this right.
I cannot just say my name from here because it won't be in the first week controller it will be in the
second controller.
By the way do product build or command B when you create a second view controller.
So every file on your app should be synchronized.
OK so after you do that we're going to learn about a new function called prepare for Segway.
So within this function we tell what to do right before we do our Segway.
OK.
So if you write prepare you will see prepare for Segway.
And this is an override function.
It means that this is generated for us before and we are overwriting we're editing dysfunction and we
can't just say if the Segway is coming from this view to that view do this.
Of course we can have multiple say grace in an app and we have identifiers to differentiate them so
we can use these identifiers in here.
So before we do that let me create the user name variable and I'm going to say name tags that text.
OK.
And it's actually OK to force I wrap this because I'm sure that this text exists and it's going to take
some empty strings at least.
OK.
So what I basically want is to make this user name equal to the my name in the second view controller.
Right.
So we can use prepare for a Segway function in order to do that because this gives us a Segway.
This gives us a UI storyboard Segway that we can use this in order to understand why we are going and
where we're going from.
So how do you do as you control.
You start by controlling Segway identifier and the Segway first the given Segway in this function.
OK.
You can check to see if the Segway has really the second V.C. identifier.
If that's the case we're going to do what we have to do.
So what we want to do is actually define the second view controller.
OK.
So let me show you in the main storyboards.
You can understand better.
So we have some have controllers and we have some Sig ways in the storyboard and the Segway vill have
a desk nation.
So it's coming from this view controller to second view controller and second view controller is the
destination right now.
So if I say say great that destination it will give me the wheel controller that I'm going to.
OK so we can use this.
So let me say Segway.
That destination and as you can see it gives me a UI view controller and I can cast this view controller
to be my second view controller and I can use this as a variable.
So let me create this variable does let.
Destination we see.
OK.
And of course I'm going to use Segway.
That destination.
And this will give me the view controller about this is going to be a UI wave controller and I'm going
to cast this as my second view controller.
OK.
Because I know I'm going to the second view controller because I've checked the Segway identifier.
OK so I'm going to use as well as before and I'm going to first casters.
I'm pretty certain this is going to be my second view controller if any dropped.
If you have any doubt over here you have to differentiate your sick ways.
You have to make sure that this is definitely going to be second view controller or else this will fail.
This will crash.
So now if I say destination we see as you can see V how second view controller as a variable.
And we can reach what they were we want to we can reach my name string from here.
So right now I connected my second view controller as a variable and I have managed to reach the attributes
the variables of that view controller so I can just make it equal to user name.
And of course in order to do that I have to come over here and do this insides of my class.
But outside of my function so I'm going to initialize this as an empty string and rather than saying
var here I'm just going to say user name as user name tags start text why I'm doing this inside of next
clicked rather than we've did load because I want to assign this name text that text then actually user
clicks on next clicked not when the app is loaded.
So we're getting guess an error here so let me try and do comment B.
Yeah.
This error was nothing so if I do command B it will go away.
So here we go we have what we need right.
So let me run this.
Let me try to give a name to my text field and hit next.
So let me say a tail OK and a text and let me go to second first.
If I hit this as you can see I don't see anything.
And if I hit next.
Now I see a tail here.
So as you can see this works in a way that we won't we're controlling the say when identifier if that
is correct.
We're casting our second view controller as a variable so that we can reach it any time we want.
OK.
And we do that inside of next clicked so that I clicked the next clicked.
It worked but when I clicked the second button in which I don't have any code.
It didn't take my name and just show it on the second view controller because it only works if the Segway
identifier is actually two seconds V.C..
So that's how you work we'd segue ways that's how you work with second screens you can write so much
more in this weave controller and in fact we're going to build a lot of apps during this course and
we're going to use Segway as most of them.
So we're going to be practicing this a lot in the upcoming lectures.
So we can't stop now.
And within the next lecture we're going to continue using this app but rather than say Waze I'm going
to show you some other concept called we have controller lifecycle.